>> James Halliday: Let's
start in on the Vim topic.
If you're working on UNIX systems,
there's kind of no way of
getting around Vim or VI.
Vim is a kind of new editor, new being,
maybe let's see, how old is Vim?
So Vim is only 24 years old,
it's very new.
It's based on an older editor
from the 80s called VI.
I think the first version
was made by Bill Joy,
who's one of the people who
started Sun Microsystems.
Also one of the people who is behind BSD,
just kind of Unix.
And we're gonna be
playing around with Vim.
So it's very important when you're
starting out to find a cheat sheet.
So there's a couple of examples.
I'm gonna paste those into the chat.
I'll go ahead and open them up
>> James Halliday: And
Vim is also like Rajax/g] kind
of its own little language.
So it might be a bit strange to think of
a text editor as being a language, but
this let's you be very efficient
in kind of making edits to files.
And kind of cutting things
up to a character and
then putting them somewhere else, and you
can sort of compose all of these different
things you learned in kind of
novel ways which I really like.
I've been a Vim user for a very long time,
and I do this stuff constantly.
>> James Halliday: You might have to use
Vim [LAUGH] if you need to edit config
files and things because pretty much any
Unix system you're gonna run into has it
already installed.
If it doesn't have Vim,
then it's gonna have VI which is sort
of like a reduced subset of Vim.
If your SSH'ed into a server, it's not
like you can open up sublime text or
whatever graphical editor
du jour is popular.
Also maybe you're on
a constrained environment that
couldn't even load that kind of program
cuz it just doesn't have enough memory,
maybe it's a wireless router or
something like that.
Although I don't think wireless
routers typically have VI, but
sometimes they have ED, which is
also one of Vim's VI ancestors, but
ED is a very [LAUGH] strange editor that
you probably won't have to use ever.
But the main feature, I think, for
using Vim is it's really good for
programming and
it's really good for
being really fast editing files.
>> James Halliday: So what makes Vim a
good editor for doing computer programming
is it has a lot of features like
indentation this kinda stuff,
syntax highlighting that are really
handy for making computer programs.
But I think the main reason why I like
it is you could just be really fast.
You can kind of shred on text files
once you get good enough at it.
VI isn't the only kind of editor
that you can use when you're
logged into a remote system,
for example over SSH.
You can also use things like nano or emex,
but I'd say emex is a pretty good editor,
but it's a little bit
more long-winded than VI.
It doesn't quite have all of the terse
little shortcuts that you get in VI.
Although, of course,
emex is extremely configurable, so
you can configure it to
behave just like VI or
Vim, but then at that point,
why not just use VI, it's great.
[LAUGH] There's also nano
which is a lot easier to use,
but it's kind of,
I would say it's a bit clunky to use.
It's not quite as terse
at a lot of things, and
it can't really do a whole lot, either.
But if you're on a system,
if you're SSH'ed into something,
it's perfectly capable at editing files.
And it's very commonly already installed
on systems, so it's good to know.
It's good to like experiment
a little bit with
it,
>> James Halliday: But
we'r e going to be during VI.
So VI or Vim is an example of
a program that's interactive.
So this means that it uses ANSI codes
which are special character sequences
that do things that control colors.
They can also move the cursor around.
It can blink even, the text.
So here I've got in
the notes a little bit of
fun things you can try out if
you like just to play around.
So if you do this echo command,
-e means interpret escape sequences.
You can do this hexadecimal escape
sequence, x1b, and then print stuff out.
So I'll just show you really
quick what this does.
Yeah, so it's kind of cyan colored text.
You can do other colors by changing
these values, so, whoa, that's neat.
That's the background, that's cool.
Anyways, sort of what editors like VI and
also other interactive programs
are doing behind the scenes.
More fun stuff and a Wikipedia page that
you can play with later if you like.